---
layout: post
title:  Introduction of HCK1 2024/3/12
date: 2024-3-14 16:00
description: Introduction of HCK1 2024/3/12
tags: HCK
categories: experiments
thumbnail: #assets/img/20231226meeting.jpg
---

HCK, or Hematopoietic cell kanase, is a member of the Src family kinases and is involved in signal transduction pathway that can indirectly affect the expression of enzymes responsible for epigenetic modifications.
HCK has five structural domains: the N-terminal domain, three highly conserved Src homology domains (SH3, SH2 and SH1) and the C-terminal regulatory tyrosine residue tail (Figure 1A). SH3 and SH2 have regulatory functions by binding to proline-rich sites and phosphotyrosine pTyr-Glu-Glu motifs, respectively. SH1 has catalytic function and contains an ATP-binding domain and a protein substrate-binding domain. At steady state, HCK generally maintains an inactive structure through two complementary regions involving C-terminal phosphorylated YT binding to SH2 and a proline-rich motif binding to SH3. Two enzyme-catalyzed modifications of YT and YA mediate Inducing this inhibitory state; HCK can be activated by various stimulating factors such as LPS/TLR4, IL2, IL6, GM-CSF, etc. When encountering stimulating factors, YT is dephosphorylated by CD45 or SHP1, destroying homeostasis The complementary conformation thus phosphorylates the YA group, thereby placing HCK in an activated state (Figure 1B). Once activated, HCK catalyzes the phosphorylation of various substrates such as Bcr/Abl, Tel/Abl, PAG, STAT5, etc., and then participates in cell proliferation, migration, apoptosis and other body activities.

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="offset-sm-3 col-sm-6 mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/20240312HCK .jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Figure 1
</div>

Reference
Poh, Ashleigh R. et al. “Hematopoietic cell kinase (HCK) as a therapeutic target in immune and cancer cells.” Oncotarget 6 (2015): 15752 - 15771.